“How does it make you feel,
“knowing God’s support is real,
“and that he’s entrusted [us]
to do the work we do?”
We know that song.
We love that song.
But have you ever stopped
to meditate on the lyrics?
How do we feel?
Because, really,
it’s a tremendous, amazing privilege
that Jehovah has entrusted to his people
—the work of Kingdom preaching
and disciple-making.
Now, while the work at Bethel
contributes to the preaching work
in a very precious and unique way,
we still recognize it’s quite special
to be able to assist someone in the ministry
and watch them progress
to the point of making a dedication
and symbolizing that by water baptism.
Our text comments mention the qualities
of gratitude and undeserved kindness.
And these are good qualities
because they’re qualities that motivate us,
that move us to action,
that touch our emotions.
Why is this emotional investment
so important when it comes to our ministry?
Well, think, for example,
of our greatest Teacher and Preacher
who ever walked the earth,
and that is Jesus Christ.
Turn with me in your Bibles, please,
to Luke chapter 19,
and we’ll just take a look at one instance
of how Jesus demonstrated
this love and concern.
Luke 19:41
says: “And when he
[that is, Jesus] got nearby,
“he viewed the city [Jerusalem]
and wept over it.”
How interesting!
Jesus’ heart was filled with so much emotion
that his eyes brimmed over with tears
when he contemplated the people,
their rejection of the message,
the siege that was to follow.
Doesn’t that show his love for people?
And obviously,
that love was made evident
the entire time
that he was here on the earth.
Now, we may not give way to tears
every time we go into our territory
and engage in the ministry,
but certainly we want
to imitate Jesus’ example,
because it’s so vital that we have
and demonstrate love for people.
It reminds me of a conversation I had
with a missionary sister some time ago,
and at the time,
she was revealing her personal circumstances.
And she felt that at that time
she could comfortably handle
ten Bible studies.
So I asked her how things were going.
She said, “Well, actually I have 20.”
She said, “I was able to get rid of six.”
She said,
“But I just can’t turn over these last four.”
She said, “They’re such a part of my life;
I just can’t let them go.”
Well, it sounds like a good problem to have.
But doesn’t it highlight her love for people?
She was emotionally invested.
Now, we also have to admit
that while preaching is a wonderful work,
actually carrying it out
is not always easy to do.
Perhaps at times we may feel
like the prophet Jeremiah.
You recall when he
was commissioned as a prophet,
he gave Jehovah a number of reasons
why he shouldn’t be selected.
He was too shy, too young,
wasn’t able to speak well.
And then once he got into his assignment
and the opposition and the ridicule started
—well, let’s take note of his feelings.
Turn with me, please,
to Jeremiah chapter 20,
Jeremiah chapter 20.
We’ll begin with the B  part of verse 8:
“For me the word of Jehovah
“has been the cause of insults
and jeering all day long.
“So I said:
‘I am not going to make mention of him,
and I will speak no more in his name.’”
Have you ever had times
when you felt like Jeremiah,
when you just didn’t have the desire
or feel like speaking
to others about Jehovah?
And maybe it was for similar reasons:
We’re shy; we feel nervous;
people in the territory are indifferent.
Or could it just be that we’re just tired?
The energy that we feel we need,
we just don’t have it.
Is it normal to feel this way at times?
Absolutely.
But let’s take note
of what Jeremiah says next.
Let’s finish verse 9.
He says:
“But in my heart
“it became like a burning fire
shut up in my bones,
“and I was tired of holding it in;
I could no longer endure it.”
You notice,
it was Jeremiah’s love for Jehovah,
his zeal for the truth,
his strong spirituality
—all of these were things
that were able to help him remain invested
and be able to overcome
any temporary discouragement
that he might have been feeling at that time.
So, what can help us to stay invested
and to maintain our love for people?
Well, there are many ways,
but we’ll discuss two.
First, Jeremiah’s example shows us
that there is never a substitute
for the study of God’s Word.
Did you notice,
What was that ‘burning fire
shut up in his bones’?
Verse 8 tells us
it was “the word of Jehovah.”
So it was Jeremiah’s appreciation
for the importance of his message
that made him responsive
to the encouragement
he received when he read God’s Word.
And it works the same for us as well.
Study of God’s Word
helps to reinforce our love for Jehovah.
It’s a constant reminder
that we’re living in the last days,
that we’re deep in the time of the end,
and that we need to do
all that we can to find
those who are
“rightly disposed for everlasting life.”
Yes, it is natural
that we are going to experience
discouragement from time to time,
but when we pray to Jehovah for help,
you see, if his Word is in our hearts,
then Jehovah can freely impart
his holy spirit to us.
He can give us what we need
to be bold preachers of the good news
and be productive in our ministry.
Now, the second thing that can help us
is applying the suggestions
that are given to us
by the slave to help us improve our ministry.
Now, perhaps in the past,
preaching may have been difficult,
maybe just because of pressure
we put upon ourselves.
Perhaps we may have felt that we
had to have the perfect presentation
or we had to place
a certain amount of literature.
But how loving it is that we see
that with the various adjustments
that have been made in our ministry,
well, hopefully some
of that anxiety has been lifted
because now we know
our focus is on starting conversations!
And with the help of prayer and God’s spirit,
we can see how that
just naturally progresses into a witness.
If we just think back for a moment
to the example of Jesus,
we can only imagine
how many preaching opportunities
Jesus must have had
just from starting conversations.
Of course, the one
we’re most familiar with is in John chapter 4
—the Samaritan woman at the well.
Not only was that a great witness
but just think about all of those
who became believers afterward.
And all of that started simply
from Jesus starting a conversation
—asking for water.
We may not always have
as many opportunities at Bethel
to engage in the house-to-house work
as we would like,
but certainly as we travel,
as we move about,
this can present greater opportunities
to start conversations.
In last month’s meeting workbook,
there was an article
“Starting Conversations
That Can Lead to a Witness,”
and that article just provided
many excellent, practical suggestions
that we can implement.
So if we follow these suggestions,
well, this is a nice way that we can show
and demonstrate our gratitude.
We’re making the best use
of our time to start a witness.
So, as we mentioned,
there are many ways
that we can show our gratitude.
But certainly these two:
Our study of God’s Word and applying
the suggestions to improve our ministry
are two ways that we can certainly implement.
So in imitation of Jesus, Jeremiah,
many other faithful Witnesses of Jehovah,
may we do what we can
to show that we are invested,
that we show our love for God
and our love for people
as we appreciatively carry out
our commission to preach the good news.